---
layout: page
permalink: /culture/1947_info/
title: The 1947 Partition and the Archive
nav: false
nav_order: 0
---

<h2>What was the 1947 Partition?</h2>
According to <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Partition_of_India" target="_blank">Wikipedia</a>: "The Partition of India in 1947 divided British India into
two independent dominions: India and Pakistan. [...] The partition displaced between 10 and 20 million people along religious lines, creating overwhelming calamity in the newly-constituted dominions. It is estimated that around 200,000 - 1 million people died during migration. It is often described as the largest mass human migration and one of the largest refugee crises in history."

<h2>What is the 1947 Partition Archive?</h2>
The <a href="https://www.1947partitionarchive.org/about" target="_blank">1947 Partition Archive</a> is a nonprofit organization in Berkeley, California dedicated to preserving and sharing the oral histories of the people who witnessed the 1947 Partition.

<h2>What does that have to do with me?</h2>
My grandparents and elders migrated from India to Pakistan during the Partition. Many witnessed horrors and tragedies. Some did not. All had stories to tell. I wanted to preserve those that I could. I became interested in the Archive's work in 2016 and was associated with them in various capacities until 2019.

<div class="row">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.liquid path="assets/img/culture/1947/grandparents_1.jpg" title="My fifth birthday party with my maternal and paternal grandmothers." class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
    </div>
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.liquid path="assets/img/culture/1947/grandparents_3.jpg" title="Me and my grandmothers." class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
    </div>
</div>
<div class="caption">
    <b>Left:</b> My fifth birthday party with my maternal and paternal grandmothers. <b>Middle:</b> Me and my grandmothers.
</div>

<div class="row">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.liquid path="assets/img/culture/1947/grandparents_2.jpg" title="Me and my maternal grandparents" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
    </div>
</div>
<div class="caption">
    Me and my maternal grandparents.
</div>